README.md, before:

What ends the night is in turn ended by the night
=================================================

Hi, I'm Nicola Orritos: a proud son, a stubborn boyfriend, an older brother, a Sardinian man and a software craftsman.

I live in Cagliari, Sardinia and I work as a software analyst/developer at [Xorovo](http://www.xorovo.com "Xorovo"), an [Applix Group](http://www.applixgroup.com/ "Applix Group") company.
I was born October, 22 in 1983 and I've always lived in Sardinia.

## Projects
(coming soon)

### Interests
Altough I really like computer science I'm really into other things as well: books, cycling, gardening, great outdoors, green tech, design and some more.

## Curriculum Vitae - EN
#### October  2002
Started the CS degree at University of Cagliari.

#### February 2006
Graduated with 107/110.

#### March 2006
First job with former _Sarda EDP_: I took part in the creation of a trouble-ticket management system for Tiscali Italia call-centers.

#### January 2008
Recruited by Xorovo (at the time a startup spin-off of the Cagliari University) as C/Java analyst and developer.

#### February 2010
Two years with _Akhela_ were I worked as a requirements analyst and developer with the team that created the daemon responsible for handling consumer multimedia devices connected to the _EntryNAV_ Infotainment system, developed by __Magneti Marelli__ for __BMW__.
For a brief time I was also in charge of handling bugs and Change Requests for the same team, collaborating with teams from Akhela, BMW, Magneti Marelli, Windriver and other companies involved in the project.

#### April 2012
Back at Xorovo, now an _Applix Group_ company, where I took part in a project for __Vodafone Italia__ as a backend Java developer.
_Vodafone Calcio_ is the streaming app for Italy's _Serie A_ tournament; this app also includes a social platform where tweets and facebook posts can be exchanged among people watching the same match.

#### Now
At Xorovo I'm lead developer of the web magazines viewer, part of the company's flagship product _Viewer+_.
For that project I am also a developer of the desktop versions, one based on _Qt 5_ (both for OSX and for Windows) and the other based on Microsoft _"Modern" UI_ and written in C#.
I'm also creator and mantainer of some personal projects: part of them are based on NodeJS, part are HTML5 web-apps, part are Cordova/Phonegap apps.
One of these projects, __"bagarino"__, has been _battle-tested_ on production servers here at Xorovo.

### Skills
During these years I developed a strong OOP background in many languages, mainly C++, C# and Java; currently I'm combining it with asyncronous programming and Javascript.
Server-side Javascript is the platform I'm studying the most: I'm studying ES6 innovations and working with Express, Grunt, Jade, Cheerio, Cordova node module and others.
I do a really good job at modelling systems and their data as well as re-engineering them (given they're not too much _spaghetti-designed_, that is).
I'm a proficient developer on different platforms: NodeJS, HTML5 and CSS3, Linux, server-side Java, Qt (both Windows and OSX) and Microsoft Windows (both desktop and tablets).
I know pretty well some SQL solutions and NoSQL ones: I worked in the past with MySQL and Postgres and now I'm developing solutions based on Redis and RethinkDB.
I have some elements of Android, iOS and Windows Phone development as well as Cordova/Phonegap.
I know a decent amount of PHP, Bash and C.
Finally I work with Apache, Monit and I know how to configure Linux-based systems.

#### More
For more details and contact info see my [LinkedIn profile](http://it.linkedin.com/in/nicolaorritos/ "LinkedIn profile").

## Curriculum Vitae - IT
#### Ottobre 2002
Iscritto al corso di laurea triennale di Informatica dell'Università degli Studi di Cagliari.

#### Febbraio 2006
Laureato nella stessa facoltà con 107/110.

#### Marzo 2006
Primo impegno lavorativo con l'allora _Sarda EDP_: creazione di un sistema di _Trouble-ticket management_ a supporto dei call-canter Tiscali Italia.

#### Gennaio 2008
Assunzione in Xorovo, con mansione di sviluppatore e analista C/Java.

#### Febbraio 2010
Parentesi di due anni e mezzo circa presso _Akhela_, dove ho fatto parte come analista dei requisiti e sviluppatore del team che ha realizzato il _demone_ di gestione dei dispositivi multimediali del sistema di Infotainment _EntryNAV_, realizzato da __Magneti Marelli__ per __BMW__.
Per Akhela ho svolto per un certo tempo anche la gestione dei bug e delle Change Requests in collaborazione con i team Akhela, Magneti Marelli, BMW, Windriver e di altre aziende, sempre per il progetto EntryNAV.

#### Aprile 2012
Vengo richiamato a _Xorovo_, che ora fa parte del gruppo _Applix_, e vengo inserito all'interno di un gruppo di sviluppo lato server.
Il progetto è _Vodafone Calcio_, app di streaming del campionato di Serie A, che include anche una piattaforma social di condivisione tramite Twitter e Facebook.

#### Presente
Attualmente presso Xorovo sono sviluppatore e progettista dello sfogliatore web che è parte di _Viewer+_, prodotto di punta di Applix & Xorovo.
Sono poi sviluppatore C++/Qt, dello stesso prodotto sia per piattaforme Windows che OSX, nonchè progettista e sviluppatore C# di app Viewer+ basate su Microsoft _"Modern" UI_.
Sono infine sviluppatore e manutentore di alcuni progetti personali: alcuni di essi sono basati su NodeJS, alcuni su HTML5 e altri sono basati su Cordova/Phonegap.
Uno di questi progetti, __"bagarino"__, è correntemente utilizzato sui server di produzione a Xorovo.

### Competenze
In questi anni ho sviluppato un background OOP piuttosto solido in più di un linguaggio di sviluppo: i principali sono sicuramente C++, C# e Java; attualmente sto combinando queste conoscenze con lo sviluppo asincrono tipico del Javascript.
Ultimamente sto lavorando molto con Javascript lato-server: sto studiando le innovazioni presenti in ES6 e lavoro con Express, Grunt, Jade, Cheerio, il modulo node di Apache Cordova e altri.
Sono skillato nel modellare sistemi software a i dati che essi elaborano, cos' come a re-ingegnerizzare sistemi preesistenti (purchè non siano troppo ingarbugliati, ovviamente).
Sono uno sviluppatore esperto su diverse piattaforme: NodeJS, HTML5 e CSS3, Linux, Java server-side, Qt (sia Windows che OSX) e Microsoft Windows (sia su desktop che tablets).
Conosco bene sia soluzioni SQL che NoSQL: in passato ho lavorato molto con MySQL e Postgres e attualmente sto sviluppando soluzioni basate su Redis e RethinkDB.
Ho una conoscenza elementare dello sviluppo Android, iOS e Windows Phone e anche dello sviluppo mobile basato su Cordova/Phonegap.
Ho una buona conoscenza anche di sltri linguaggi, quali PHP, Bash e C.
Infine lavoro abitualmente con sistemi quali Apache e Monit, e sono in grado di configurare sistemi basati su Linux.

#### Maggiori informazioni
Per ulteriori dettagli consultate il mio profilo [LinkedIn](http://it.linkedin.com/in/nicolaorritos/ "Profilo LinkedIn")

## Social and links
[Twitter](http://twitter.com/nicola_orritos "Twitter")<br>
[Google+](https://plus.google.com/+NicolaOrritos "Google plus")<br>
[LinkedIn](http://it.linkedin.com/in/nicolaorritos/ "LinkedIn")<br>

Commit message:

Added some projects and fixed minor issues

README.md, after:

What ends the night is in turn ended by the night
=================================================

Hi, I'm Nicola Orritos: a proud son, a stubborn boyfriend, an older brother, a Sardinian man and a software craftsman.

I live in Cagliari, Sardinia and I work as a software analyst/developer at [Xorovo](http://www.xorovo.com "Xorovo"), an [Applix Group](http://www.applixgroup.com/ "Applix Group") company.
I was born October, 22 in 1983 and I've always lived in Sardinia.

## Projects
+ __[bagarino](http://github.com/NicolaOrritos/bagarino "bagarino")__: tickets/tokens REST service, made to distribute and validate unique alphanumeric tickets which expiration can be fine-tuned using different policies
+ __[versioncheck](http://github.com/NicolaOrritos/versioncheck "versioncheck")__: minimal REST server hosting a list of apps/services/documents(/everything) versions and telling clients whether they should (or must) upgrade to a new one
+ __[sjl](http://github.com/NicolaOrritos/sjl "sjl")__: _Simple Json Loader_ is a node module that, well, simply loads some JSON from a file, returning an object

### Interests
Altough I really like computer science I'm really into other things as well: books, cycling, gardening, great outdoors, green tech, design and some more.

## Curriculum Vitae - EN
#### October  2002
Started a CS degree at University of Cagliari.

#### February 2006
Graduated with 107/110.

#### March 2006
First job with former _Sarda EDP_: I took part in the creation of a trouble-ticket management system for Tiscali Italia call-centers.

#### January 2008
Recruited by Xorovo (at the time a startup spin-off of the Cagliari University) as C/Java analyst and developer.

#### February 2010
Two years with _Akhela_ were I worked as a requirements analyst and developer with the team that created the daemon responsible for handling consumer multimedia devices connected to the _EntryNAV_ Infotainment system, developed by __Magneti Marelli__ for __BMW__.
For a brief time I was also in charge of handling bugs and Change Requests for the same team, collaborating with teams from Akhela, BMW, Magneti Marelli, Windriver and other companies involved in the project.

#### April 2012
Back at Xorovo, now an _Applix Group_ company, where I took part in a project for __Vodafone Italia__ as a backend Java developer.
_Vodafone Calcio_ is the streaming app for Italy's _Serie A_ tournament; this app also includes a social platform where tweets and facebook posts can be exchanged among people watching the same match.

#### Now
At Xorovo I'm lead developer of the web magazines viewer, part of the company's flagship product _Viewer+_.
For that project I am also a developer of the desktop versions, one based on _Qt 5_ (both for OSX and for Windows) and the other based on Microsoft _"Modern" UI_ and written in C#.
I'm also creator and mantainer of some personal projects: part of them are based on NodeJS, part are HTML5 web-apps, part are Cordova/Phonegap apps.
One of these projects, __"bagarino"__, has been _battle-tested_ on production servers here at Xorovo.

### Skills
During these years I developed a strong OOP background in many languages, mainly C++, C# and Java; currently I'm combining it with asyncronous programming and Javascript.
Server-side Javascript is the platform I'm studying the most: I'm studying ES6 innovations and working with Express, Grunt, Jade, Cheerio, Cordova node module and others.
I do a really good job at modelling systems and their data as well as re-engineering them (given they're not too much _spaghetti-designed_, that is).
I'm a proficient developer on different platforms: NodeJS, HTML5 and CSS3, Linux, server-side Java, Qt (both Windows and OSX) and Microsoft Windows (both desktop and tablets).
I know pretty well some SQL solutions and NoSQL ones: I worked in the past with MySQL and Postgres and now I'm developing solutions based on Redis and RethinkDB.
I have some elements of Android, iOS and Windows Phone development as well as Cordova/Phonegap.
I know a decent amount of PHP, Bash and C.
Finally I work with Apache, Monit and I know how to configure Linux-based systems.

#### More
For more details and contact info see my [LinkedIn profile](http://it.linkedin.com/in/nicolaorritos/ "LinkedIn profile").

## Curriculum Vitae - IT
#### Ottobre 2002
Iscritto al corso di laurea triennale di Informatica dell'Università degli Studi di Cagliari.

#### Febbraio 2006
Laureato nella stessa facoltà con 107/110.

#### Marzo 2006
Primo impegno lavorativo con l'allora _Sarda EDP_: creazione di un sistema di _Trouble-ticket management_ a supporto dei call-canter Tiscali Italia.

#### Gennaio 2008
Assunzione in Xorovo, con mansione di sviluppatore e analista C/Java.

#### Febbraio 2010
Parentesi di due anni e mezzo circa presso _Akhela_, dove ho fatto parte come analista dei requisiti e sviluppatore del team che ha realizzato il _demone_ di gestione dei dispositivi multimediali del sistema di Infotainment _EntryNAV_, realizzato da __Magneti Marelli__ per __BMW__.
Per Akhela ho svolto per un certo tempo anche la gestione dei bug e delle Change Requests in collaborazione con i team Akhela, Magneti Marelli, BMW, Windriver e di altre aziende, sempre per il progetto EntryNAV.

#### Aprile 2012
Vengo richiamato a _Xorovo_, che ora fa parte del gruppo _Applix_, e vengo inserito all'interno di un gruppo di sviluppo lato server.
Il progetto è _Vodafone Calcio_, app di streaming del campionato di Serie A, che include anche una piattaforma social di condivisione tramite Twitter e Facebook.

#### Presente
Attualmente presso Xorovo sono sviluppatore e progettista dello sfogliatore web che è parte di _Viewer+_, prodotto di punta di Applix & Xorovo.
Sono poi sviluppatore C++/Qt, dello stesso prodotto sia per piattaforme Windows che OSX, nonchè progettista e sviluppatore C# di app Viewer+ basate su Microsoft _"Modern" UI_.
Sono infine sviluppatore e manutentore di alcuni progetti personali: alcuni di essi sono basati su NodeJS, alcuni su HTML5 e altri sono basati su Cordova/Phonegap.
Uno di questi progetti, __"bagarino"__, è correntemente utilizzato sui server di produzione a Xorovo.

### Competenze
In questi anni ho sviluppato un background OOP piuttosto solido in più di un linguaggio di sviluppo: i principali sono sicuramente C++, C# e Java; attualmente sto combinando queste conoscenze con lo sviluppo asincrono tipico del Javascript.
Ultimamente sto lavorando molto con Javascript lato-server: sto studiando le innovazioni presenti in ES6 e lavoro con Express, Grunt, Jade, Cheerio, il modulo node di Apache Cordova e altri.
Sono skillato nel modellare sistemi software a i dati che essi elaborano, cos' come a re-ingegnerizzare sistemi preesistenti (purchè non siano troppo ingarbugliati, ovviamente).
Sono uno sviluppatore esperto su diverse piattaforme: NodeJS, HTML5 e CSS3, Linux, Java server-side, Qt (sia Windows che OSX) e Microsoft Windows (sia su desktop che tablets).
Conosco bene sia soluzioni SQL che NoSQL: in passato ho lavorato molto con MySQL e Postgres e attualmente sto sviluppando soluzioni basate su Redis e RethinkDB.
Ho una conoscenza elementare dello sviluppo Android, iOS e Windows Phone e anche dello sviluppo mobile basato su Cordova/Phonegap.
Ho una buona conoscenza anche di altri linguaggi, quali PHP, Bash e C.
Infine lavoro abitualmente con sistemi quali Apache e Monit, e sono in grado di configurare sistemi basati su Linux.

#### Maggiori informazioni
Per ulteriori dettagli consultate il mio profilo [LinkedIn](http://it.linkedin.com/in/nicolaorritos/ "Profilo LinkedIn")

## Social and links
[Twitter](http://twitter.com/nicola_orritos "Twitter")<br>
[Google+](https://plus.google.com/+NicolaOrritos "Google plus")<br>
[LinkedIn](http://it.linkedin.com/in/nicolaorritos/ "LinkedIn")<br>
